tools/tidb-lightning: document backend and that system DBs are filtered (#1620)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/backend.md

---
title: TiDB Lightning Back End

> summary: Choose how to write data into the TiDB cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Choose how to write data into the TiDB cluster.
```

category: reference
---

> # TiDB Lightning Back End

Reviewer 2: most of this file describes the tidb back end, how about move this section to overview, and change the file name?

Reviewer 3: do you mean by mentioning it in the overview?

Reviewer 2: I mean this file named "backend" is not suitable, most content is about tidb back end

Reviewer: @kennytm Perhaps this title is too general as mentioned by @WangXiangUSTC?

Author: Renamed to `tidb_backend.md`

Reviewer 2: LGTM

TiDB Lightning supports two back ends: "Importer" and "TiDB". It determines how `tidb-lightning` delivers data into the target cluster.

The "Importer" back end (default) requires `tidb-lightning` to first encode the SQL/CSV data into KV pairs, and relies on the external `tikv-importer` program to sort these KV pairs and ingest directly into the TiKV nodes.

The "TiDB" back end requires `tidb-lightning` to encode these data into SQL `INSERT` statements, and have these executed directly on the TiDB node.

| Back end | "Importer" | "TiDB" |

> |---|---|---|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|:---|:---|:---|
```

| Speed | Fast (~300 GB/hr) | Slow (~50 GB/hr) |
| Resource usage | High | Low |
| ACID respected while importing | No | Yes |
| Target tables | Must be empty | Can be populated |

## Deployment for "TiDB" back end

When using the "TiDB" back end, you no longer need `tikv-importer`. Compared with the [standard deployment procedure](/dev/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/deployment.md),

* steps involving `tikv-importer` can all be skipped
* the configuration must be changed to indicate "TiDB" back end is used

### Ansible deployment

1. The `[importer_server]` section in `inventory.ini` can be left blank.

    ```ini
    ...

    [importer_server]
    # keep empty

    [lightning_server]
    192.168.20.10

    ...
    ```

2. The `tikv_importer_port` setting in `group_vars/all.yml` is ignored, and the file `group_vars/importer_server.yml` does not need to be changed.

    But you need to edit `conf/tidb-lightning.yml` and change the `backend` setting to `tidb`.

    ```yaml
    ...
    tikv_importer:
        backend: "tidb"   # <-- change this
    ...
    ```

3. Bootstrap and deploy the cluster as usual.

4. Mount the data source for TiDB Lightning as usual.

> 5. No need to start `tikv-importer`.

Reviewer: I don't think this is a step.

6. Start `tidb-lightning` as usual.

> 7. No need to stop `tikv-importer`.

Reviewer: ditto

### Manual deployment

> There is no need to download and configure `tikv-importer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You do not need to download and configure `tikv-importer`.
```

> Before running `tidb-lightning`, include the following into the configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before running `tidb-lightning`, add the following lines into the configuration file:
```

```toml
[tikv-importer]
backend = "tidb"
```

or supplying the `--backend tidb` arguments when executing `tidb-lightning`.

## Conflict resolution

The "TiDB" back end supports importing to an already-populated table. However, the new data may cause unique key conflict with the old data. You can control how to resolve the conflict by this task configuration

```toml
[tikv-importer]
backend = "tidb"
on-duplicate = "replace" # or "error" or "ignore"
```

| Setting | Behavior on conflict | Equivalent SQL statement |

> |---|---|---|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|:---|:---|:---|
```
